z0-mu/README.md, before:


# Z boson decay into two muons analysis
Detailed description of the analysis and theoretical background can be found in the latex generated `.pdf` file under `/analysis`.


## To do list

- [ ] Have a somewhat decent theoretical understanding of the processes that are happening in the specific decay.

- [ ] Create an event loop file to access some variables.
- [ ] Compute the invariant mass of the two leading leptons in the event and plot it. Also: $p_z = p_T sinh(\nu)$ - evaluate it's dependency on the polar angle $\theta$ and then rewrite as a function of pseudorapidity $\nu$.
- [ ] Compare invariant mass calculation with TLorentzVector results

- [ ] Create a "cut flow" histogram. With these cuts, if possible (taken from ATLAS, adapt): weights, trigger, GRL, vertex, 2 Lepton, PDGID, charge, $p_T$ cut, isolation, tight ID, Z mass.
- [ ] Choose a reasonable selection and process all the data sources with it.

- [ ] Fit Z mass to Gauss and Breit-Widgner line shapes.
- [ ] Try to compare results with [PDG](https://pdg.lbl.gov/)

If possible:
- [ ] Use tag-and-probe method to determine the detection efficiency for _tight electrons_ in data as function of $p_T$.

 
## Data Sources

The links containing lists of all the data files that were used for analysis are listed below:

- [LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1](https://eospublichttp.cern.ch/eos/opendata/lhcb/Collision11/EW/LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1_EW_DST/file-indexes/LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1_EW_DST_file_index.txt)
- [LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1](https://eospublichttp.cern.ch/eos/opendata/lhcb/Collision11/EW/LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1_EW_DST/file-indexes/LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1_EW_DST_file_index.txt)
- [LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21](https://eospublichttp.cern.ch/eos/opendata/lhcb/Collision12/EW/LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21_EW_DST/file-indexes/LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21_EW_DST_file_index.txt)
- [LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21](https://eospublichttp.cern.ch/eos/opendata/lhcb/Collision12/EW/LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21_EW_DST/file-indexes/LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21_EW_DST_file_index.txt)

  
  

To obtain valid python files usable with `Z_data_to_root.py` script, go to either of these links, open _Developer Tools_ (`ctrl + shift + i` on chrome), go to _Console_, paste down this _Java Script_ code:

    copy(`DaVinci().Input += [\n\t${document.querySelector('pre').innerText.split('\n').filter(r => !!r).map(r => `"DATAFILE='${r}'TYP='POOL_ROOTTREE'OPT='READ'"`).join(',\n\t')}\n]`)


This code will automatically copy and format all the data file links in a format usable by _DaVinci_. Examples of what should be produced in the clipboard are under the `/sources` folder.

To get _root_ tuples a script `Z_data_to_root.py` has been written. Make sure to enter the correct _DataType_ option (`line 34`) for respective data sources. To use the script with _DaVinci_ simply run this command in your terminal after you have the _cvmfs_ environment variables set up (make sure to change the source file name):

    lb-run Davinci/v45r8 gaudirun.py Z_data_to_root.py SOURCE_LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1_EW_DST.py


The resulting data should look somewhat similar to the data in the `/data` folder.

Commit message:

Add workflow and analysis improvements into 'to do' lit

z0-mu/README.md, after:


# Z boson decay into two muons analysis
Detailed description of the analysis and theoretical background can be found in the latex generated `.pdf` file under `/analysis`.


## To do list

- [x] Have a somewhat decent theoretical understanding of the processes that are happening in the specific decay.

- [x] Create an event loop file to access some variables.
- [x] Compute the invariant mass of the two leading leptons in the event and plot it. Also: $p_z = p_T sinh(\nu)$ - evaluate it's dependency on the polar angle $\theta$ and then rewrite as a function of pseudorapidity $\nu$.
- [x] Compare invariant mass calculation with TLorentzVector results

- [x] Create a "cut flow" histogram. With these cuts, if possible (taken from ATLAS, adapt): weights, trigger, GRL, vertex, 2 Lepton, PDGID, charge, $p_T$ cut, isolation, tight ID, Z mass.
- [ ] Create a mass "cut flow" chart with overlapping cuts
- [ ] Choose a reasonable selection and process all the data sources with it.

- [ ] Fit Z mass to Gauss and Breit-Widgner line shapes.
- [ ] Try to compare results with [PDG](https://pdg.lbl.gov/)

Additional workflow improvements:
- [ ] Utilize _Snakemake_.
- [ ] Extract cutflow and data preparation step out of charting code.
- [ ] Prepare config for _Kolmogorov–Smirnov test_ implementation.


## Data Sources

The links containing lists of all the data files that were used for analysis are listed below:

- [LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1](https://eospublichttp.cern.ch/eos/opendata/lhcb/Collision11/EW/LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1_EW_DST/file-indexes/LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1_EW_DST_file_index.txt)
- [LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1](https://eospublichttp.cern.ch/eos/opendata/lhcb/Collision11/EW/LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1_EW_DST/file-indexes/LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1_EW_DST_file_index.txt)
- [LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21](https://eospublichttp.cern.ch/eos/opendata/lhcb/Collision12/EW/LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21_EW_DST/file-indexes/LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagUp_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21_EW_DST_file_index.txt)
- [LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21](https://eospublichttp.cern.ch/eos/opendata/lhcb/Collision12/EW/LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21_EW_DST/file-indexes/LHCb_2012_Beam4000GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21_EW_DST_file_index.txt)

  
  

To obtain valid python files usable with `Z_data_to_root.py` script, go to either of these links, open _Developer Tools_ (`ctrl + shift + i` on chrome), go to _Console_, paste down this _Java Script_ code:

    copy(`DaVinci().Input += [\n\t${document.querySelector('pre').innerText.split('\n').filter(r => !!r).map(r => `"DATAFILE='${r}'TYP='POOL_ROOTTREE'OPT='READ'"`).join(',\n\t')}\n]`)


This code will automatically copy and format all the data file links in a format usable by _DaVinci_. Examples of what should be produced in the clipboard are under the `/sources` folder.

To get _root_ tuples a script `Z_data_to_root.py` has been written. Make sure to enter the correct _DataType_ option (`line 34`) for respective data sources. To use the script with _DaVinci_ simply run this command in your terminal after you have the _cvmfs_ environment variables set up (make sure to change the source file name):

    lb-run Davinci/v45r8 gaudirun.py Z_data_to_root.py SOURCE_LHCb_2011_Beam3500GeV_VeloClosed_MagDown_RealData_Reco14_Stripping21r1_EW_DST.py


The resulting data should look somewhat similar to the data in the `/data` folder.
